Beach Boys
are an American rock band
released three albums in 1963 alone
Two Members Had to Get a Restraining Order Against Each Other
Also went by the name “The Pendletones”
The Beach Boys were fined by their manager $100 for cussing, and they would have to pay $50 every time they hung out with a girl.
Only Dennis was able to surf
|
Brian Wilson
Sometime in 1969, Wilson opened a short-lived health food store called The Radiant Radish.
Brian was still touring with the beach boys in 2018
By late 1964, he had quit touring with the Beach Boys, due in part to a nervous breakdown he had suffered on the road, and he used his time at home to begin work on the band’s next album. 
Plagued by his heavy abuse of alcohol, marijuana, cocaine and LSD, Wilson suffered numerous nervous breakdowns and grew obese.
In 1991, Wilson’s family sued Brian’s psychologist, resulting in a restraining order and the loss of Landy's license to practice psychology in California.
Brian was deaf in one ear
|
Pet Sounds
Pet Sounds is the eleventh studio album by the beach boys
Pet Sounds is regarded by musicologists as an early concept album that advanced the field of music production
The album's soundscape incorporates elements of pop, jazz, classical, exotica, and avant-garde music.
The album's greatest success was in the UK, where it reached number 2 and stayed in the top-ten positions for six months.
Pet Sounds has had many different reissues since its release in 1966, including remastered mono and stereo versions.
|
Mike Love
played rudimentary saxophone in the first years of the fledgling garage band that evolved from the Pendletones to the Beach Boys.
fronted the band Celebration, which achieved the top 30 hit single Almost Summer
sued Brian for defamation regarding claims made in the 1991 memoir Wouldn't It Be Nice: My Own Story.
sued Brian Wilson and The Mail On Sunday newspaper because the Beach Boys' name and Love's image were used in a promotional CD that was given free with the paper to promote the 2004 Brian Wilson presents Smile release. His case was dismissed
drew inspiration from the lyrics of Chuck Berry in writing many of the Beach Boys songs
|
Good Vibrations
Composed by Brian Wilson with lyrics by Mike Love
Released on October 10, 1966
heralded a wave of pop experimentation and the onset of psychedelic and progressive rock, and helped develop the use of the recording studio as an instrument
From the start, Wilson envisioned a theremin for the track.
Wilson said that the song was inspired by his mother
|
God only knows
was released as a b-side to “Wouldn’t It Be Nice” two months after the release of Pet Sounds.
was sung by Brian Wilson’s younger brother, Carl Wilson and produced by Brian Wilson.
was cited in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as one of the “500 Songs That Shaped Rock and Roll”.
names “God” in its title and lyrics, which was unusual for mainstream pop music at the time.
was created after a vision that Tony Asher and Brian Wilson had of “being blind, but in being blind, you can see more.”
Paul McCartney has frequently spoken of his affinity with the album, citing "God Only Knows" as his favorite song of all time
|
Al Jardine
Al Jardine co-founded the Beach Boys.
In 1988, Al Jardine was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Beach Boys.
Al Jardine was the Beach Boys’ rhythm guitarist, occasionally singing harmony vocals.
Al Jardine stopped touring with the Beach Boys after the death of Carl Wilson.
Al Jardine was sued by Mike Love and Carl Wilson's estate for the use of the name The Beach Boys Family & Friends, a touring band that Jardine had assembled that included him, sons Matt and Adam Jardine, Carnie and Wendy Wilson, and others.
|
smiley smile
Smiley Smile is the 12th studio album by the Beach Boys.
Smiley Smile was the band’s lowest chart placement to that point.
Smiley Smile was devised as a simplified version of their forthcoming album Smile.
The delaying of Smile and forced release of Smiley Smile began Brian Wilson’s long descent into madness.
Smile was promised as better than Pet Sounds by the band, but flopped on release.
|
bruce johnston
Filled in for Brian Wilson as a touring member in 1965, after which he became a contributing member to studio albums.
Bruce Johnston produced the Beach Boys albums “L.A.” and “Keepin’ the Summer Alive”
Bruce Johnston composed and won a Grammy for the 1975 Barry Manilow song “I Write The Songs”.
Bruce Johnston continues to tour as a member of the Beach Boys along co-founder Mike Love.
Bruce Johnston left the Beach Boys in 1972 for a solo career.
|
Carl Wilson
Carl Wilson was the lead guitarist for the Beach Boys.
Carl Wilson was the youngest brother of the Beach Boys’ Brian Wilson and Dennis Wilson.
Carl Wilson was the de facto leader of the Beach Boys in the early 1970s.
Carl Wilson served as the band’s musical director on stage.
Carl Wilson died at 51 of lung cancer.
|
albums
the beach boys have made 29 albums
two of the most popular albums are Smiley Smile and Pet Sounds
my favorite album is Pet Sounds
|
members
the members of the beach boys are Carl Wilson, Bruce Johnston, Al Jardine, Brian Wilson, and Mike Love